So we got our basic chat going on, we see the usernames now, how about some user images?
It would be nice if besides the username, we would also see some image of the user who sent a message.
And for that, we, of course, need a way of adding a profile picture, to be precise, during the
sign up process here.
Besides providing a user name, it would be great if we would also have to provide an image.
So that's what I'm going to work on right now for this.
Let's go back to the off screen or to the art form, to be precise.
And in that all form, we now also want to fetch an image if the user is signing up, of course, not
during logging, but only during sign up.
So for that, maybe at the very top of this entire column, which I have here in the form, we can add
a new widget and that new widget could be the the image prevue, which you want to use.
And there's a specific widget that could be helpful here, and that's the circle avatar, we can add
this on top of the email, TextField, and this gives us such a nice circle here in which we later can
preview the image.
Now, it's a bit small, but we can set the radius here to change that and set it to a double.
And if we set it to 30, you see this is already getting bigger and you can play around with that value.
I'll go with 40 here, I think.
Let me save that.
Yeah, that looks nice to me.
And there I want to preview the image of the user.
Now, of course, the user also needs a way of taking and setting that image.
And therefore, we need a button below that circle avatar.
And you can of course, go four different buttons here, all go for a flat button where I want to combine
text and a camera I can.
And there is a special constructor of this flat button which I can use for this, the DOT icon constructor.
This generates a flat button that has both some text as well as an icon.
So here on prest, I'll just provide a dummy function right now and for the icon, also the icon.
And there we can use the image icon, for example, and for the label we can specify a text widget and
set this to.
Ad image or any text you want now on this flat button, we can then also set the text, color the text.
Color to theme.
Off context.
Primary color, and with all that added, you should have this nice ad image button below this circular
avatar.
Now, of course, we need to hook this button up so that when we click it, we actually do allow the
user to take or pick an image.
And for this, we can use the good old image picker package, which we can use for flutter.
This is very straightforward to use.
We just need to go to installing here, grab this dependency and add this to our perspective YAML file.
So in there below firebase off, I'll add the image picker.
And this will then, of course, automatically download this package and add it to our project.
Now, regarding extra set up steps, there's nothing you need to do on Android, but there are some
extra steps you want to do on iOS.
You want to add these free strings or items to your info list.
And for that, if you are building for iOS, you should go to the IOC folder.
Then to the runner folder and there an envelope.
Just make sure that you do have those items and I currently don't have them here.
So I'll grab this and as photo library use such description.
And we can simply add this here at the bottom and add a key field opening and closing, and between
the opening and closing key, you add this identifier and below that, you just add a string field like
this.
And between the string tags, you now put the options which belong to this description, and that is
the text that will be shown to the user if your app wants access to the photo library.
We need access to let you pick an image, something like this, now we can replicate this twice so that
we have three items because we also need the NSA camera use such description where I will show the same
message and the microphone we shouldn't need to hear.
But to avoid errors, we can also added.
But since we are not going to access the microphone, you might not need this depending on what you
do in your app.
So now with these keys added here, we should now be fine and we should now have all the setup, we
need to use the image picker so we can then go back to the for forum and make sure that we do pick an
image if this button is pressed.
Now, to keep this off him, Leon, I will actually grab this circle avatar and the flat button, though,
cut it from there and add a new widget.
And all, added Pickus Subfolder, and in there I'm going to create a user, underscore image, underscore
Picador file, which holds a stateful widget stateful because this widget will actually need to update
some state since we're going to manage a preview of the image to user chose and we'll need to store
that chose an image and then render the UI to show a preview.
So here I have my user image picker widget and I import material to start, of course.
And now in there I want to render these two widgets, which I cut.
Now, rendering them side by side like this won't work though.
So I'll wrap them in an extra column which has some children into some children are my circle avatar
and my flat button.
And now we can use this user image picker in the off form and therefore the form stays lean.
So here I just have my user image picture like this.
And of course, in order to use the user image picker here, you also need to add this import.
So with that, we have the same year before, but now we have a separate component that manages the
image picking process and that is always a good practice.
So now here with that with that image picture component, we want to make sure that when this flat buttons
pressed, we do open up that image picker that allows the user to use the camera or to use the image
library.
For this, I'll add a new function, your pig image.
And on the image pick or package, we also see how this works, how this package works, and that picking
an image is as easy as calling pic image on this image picker object, which we get from that image
picker library we added.
So therefore we need to add disempowers here as well.
Import this image.
Picker Dodge Dart filed from the image picker package and then here in Pic Image, we can call image
picker dot pic image.
Like this, and now we need to wire up pig image, of course, to the buttons, so here on prest I'll
point at pig image without parentheses so that this function, this method gets executed whenever a
user presses this button.
Now we can find a source here, the image source, and here we got the image source Inam, which actually
allows us to specify the source, and here we can choose whatever we want to use to camera or the gallery
for taking that image.
Now, if you would want to allow the user to go for either of the two, you could also open up a separate
dialogue before you call pic image.
And in that separate dialogue, you could get that user choice.
Now, I will simply assume that we always want to use the camera here, let's say.
But of course, that is totally up to you and what you want to build in your application.
So now here we call pic image and this should open up the camera now, pic image then returns a future
which resolves to depict file.
So here I'll turn this into a async function so that we can conveniently await this future and in the
end get depict image file here and stored this in this constant in this variable here.
And it's just picked image file, which we then can use to show a preview for that here in this state,
we just need to add a new variable, which will be of type file, and that's the picked image.
Underscore picked image, actually, and file is a type which you need to import.
From I so you can add to start IO import here and this will unlock this file type and then this is the
perfect image.
And here we can therefore then call set state and set picked image equal to this picked image file we
got from our future here.
And that stores depict image file in this picked image property.
And it's this property which we now can use to show the prevue, because, of course, we have access
to that property down there in our widget tree and it's here in the Circle Avatar, where you can now
actually set a background image.
You will show an image in this avatar and this background image argument here should be of type image
provider.
And there are various providers in flutter.
There are providers for images that come from the web.
So where you have a link to the image, but there also is a file image provider and file image simply
takes the file, which holds the image and will then basically create a connection and load that image.
So here we just pass passing our picked image and that should do the trick.
With that, we should be able to open the camera safe, depict image and show it as a preview here in
the circle, Avatar.
Now you see when it's safe to.
I get an error, though, because initially, of course, my file here is null.
The picked image initially is not set.
So therefore, your background image actually initially shouldn't be set to anything.
I will rather check if picked image is not null and only if it is not null.
I'll set it to this file image.
Otherwise I will set background image as a whole to null so I will not pass null to file image.
This would cause this error, but instead I only load file image for this image if we have it, and
otherwise set the entire background image argument here to null.
And with that it now saves and reloads without errors.
And we have to empty prevue here.
And you could set a different background color if you wanted to.
We can do this in a second.
And now she was an image.
And as you can tell, nothing happens here when I click this button.
But instead, I get an error here, I get the error that.
The plugin is missing at the end and we know it is error, we can fix it by closing this emulator and
simply restarting it entirely.
If you add a brand new package, you often have to do this to make sure that the package is loaded correctly.
So let's restart it entirely.
And let's then try again, and now it is looks better, it opens up this camera simulator on my emulator
and we can take a picture, your safeties, and we see it here as a preview.
Now, if you're trying this on iOS, you won't be able to do this on the emulator there.
You would need to test it on a real device.
And we'll do that in a second as well once we add it to upload functionality.
So here's my image now.
I will set a different background color here for the case that we don't have an image yet and background
color simply well, once a value of type color.
And here I will just use this gray color as a default so that if we save this.
And they reload this app, so we have no perfect image.
We start with this gray color, but then we can pick an image.
Confirmed this, and now we have our image, so that's great, we're able to pick an image now.
Now, one problem we have here is that, of course, I only want to be able to pick an image if we're
signing up, not ever logging in.
And currently does this showing up on the login screen here.
Now, fixing this is easy.
However, on the off form, we just need to make sure that just like the username field, for example,
this user image picker is only getting added if we're not in logging mode.
And for this, we can use this in error if statement where we check if we're not in logging mode.
So if is logging in is false and only then does user image picker will be added.
So if you do that, you see there is no image picture here and only if I create a new account that's
there.
And then, of course, I can pick that image and it should work just fine, and of course, we also,
thanks to the strohl ability we added earlier, can add our other fields.
So this is now working.
That's step number one.
Step number two is that this image should get uploaded, of course.